no look I mean no role models no no it's
it's look it's it's a great topic I mean
in some ways it's the show less than in
the world you know what what does this
label mean you know to be an
intellectual oh you know and I'm asking
this at a time in 2018 when almost
nobody uses the label and when it is
laughed at so you know I'm Sam Harris
has tried to revive the label and talks
about the intellectual dark web and the
Sun it is laughable it is worth scoffing
at it is worth ridicule you know it's
true I mean like you know you say are
you wearing a cowboy hat because you're
actually a cowboy or you you know is it
dressed up for Halloween some people are
real intellectuals and some are not
as absurd as it sounds not only is it
possible to work in something like the
academic study of history and not be an
agate not being intellectual it's common
it's not just possible to do
humanitarian work in Laos and not be an
intellectual the vast majority are not
it's not you know it's not just possible
to be an artist and not being
intellectual you know the vast majority
are so when we're looking for we're
looking for the trait making the trade
you know what is the trait that makes
someone make someone to lecture well
this is my my way of putting it I think
part of being an intellectual is being
perpetually profoundly dissatisfied with
your own ignorance and then being
perpetually
profoundly too satisfied with the
ignorance of your own society the rule
of ignorance in the shaping of and and
functioning of your own society and that
may or may not exhibit itself in a in a
really directly political way what is
the point one answer you know you
virtually before on this YouTube channel
the point is Who I am the point is who
you want to be and who you want to
become right and on some level we all
know that I mean it's shallow and it's
deep at the same time like what you read
and what you care about and what kind of
difference trying to make in the world
these things they become who you are and
you become them in a
very real sense if you sit on the couch
and watch football and drink beer after
work you become a sitting on the couch
football watching [ __ ] that's
and you are that's it's nothing you
can't put that aside so no that's not
who I really am
that's just yeah you can't think that's
not who I really am that's just what I
do in my in my free time no that is that
is who you are right or you could say
your free time is yes yes that's right
well I think that's also what haunts
intellectuals right I think that's
that's what I see
so I mean you know I mean why why try to
learn Cree it's not like a today can
speak the cree language fluently why try
to learn Chinese and why I mean within
that I care about Chinese politics and
history in the kind of critical way that
I do well guess what I get to be me you
know like that's the final outcome is
that that you know it's not that this is
something I do that this is you know
this is who I am
this video has been a long time coming I
got a question many months ago from
James I'm just using first names James
is a longtime supporter on patreon as
someone who's also a vegan involved in
baking and I would guess in response to
some video or another in which I used
the word in passing he asked me what
does it mean to you to be an
intellectual what is the meaning of
being an intellectual in 2018 I got my
best girl Melissa off camera if you
wonder what I'm looking at buddy it's
not like I'm looking at notes I've
written down from Berkeley or something
not looking at my script you know okay I
have like six different things to say
here and none of them are logically
linked together so one of the first
things ever say I was chatting with Tcat
recently and he met this in a totally
positive way but he said jokingly he
said you know aisel stop calling
yourself an autodidact
he said that's one of those laughable
things that makes everyone cringe like
if you call herself an autodidact he
said this was his joke or what he was
saying
it's like calling yourself an
entrepreneur you know now I get the joke
he's making but this is one of those
things wearing a cowboy hat isn't camp
and isn't a costume if you're actually a
cowboy if you actually work on a ranch
with cows it wouldn't mean wearing Spurs
on your boots it's not a Halloween
costume if that's you know if that's
what you actually are and you know I get
the joke he's trying to make like there
are people who call themselves an
entrepreneur maybe especially on YouTube
maybe especially within the vegan
movement or maybe especially just maybe
in Fitness or something maybes thinking
if some weather I guess that's true the
fitness youtubers they make an e-book or
they say giving Skype coaching and they
they call themselves nightmare okay once
in a while people using that word is
it's maybe cringe-worthy but what about
the people who really are entrepreneurs
or people who really aspire to be people
who are studying hard and working
because that's that's really how they
they see their their career path and
what the reason I mentioned this though
is they're really sort of snide
undercurrent which I think prevents a
lot of people from even thinking through
what it means to be an intellectual
whether or not something they aspired to
be in the past or present or future
because for a lot of people it's maybe
selling you toyed with as a teenager and
that's something you come back to later
in life when you have some more some
more time and leisure or something after
a period of desperately trying to make
rent money
um you know this this culture that
exists on the Internet and to some
extent in real life of you know kind of
denigrating people for any any
pretensions you know they may have and
on the other side of that you know okay
look we've all seen movies that depict
people who have ridiculous potential
pardon me people are ridiculous
pretensions and become the butt of the
joke you know in the movie or what have
you but having ambition and having the
vulnerability to say openly that you
have that ambition you know whatever it
is you know it's it's not such a
terrible thing for
someone to want to be a poet you know
should they really be the butt of every
joke and you know at the same time there
are so many pretension it's in our
society we're all supposed to take you
know so tremendously seriously
white American culture is like that the
idea of the dream don't don't puncture
someone's treatment so on there are
certain forms of I don't know affected
innocence you know being a dreamer that
are that are culturally valorized and
protected and there are others that are
always kind of you know the butt of a
joke ozone so look just just to dispense
with that that example you know briefly
when I say I was an autodidact in
learning lotion the Lao language I mean
I had no teacher I had no school I had
no college I went to the library I you
know in some cases I did in effect like
make my own resources and textbooks I
remember going to one library where they
had photocopies of handouts that were
used in United Nations refugee camps you
know for the language education
materials and looking at that you know
okay what's useful here and French
colonial dictionaries dictionaries the
language in the French colonial period
you know lotion the French and then
figuring out the writing system had
changed from that period to the modern
period and figuring out how the spelling
system worked and documents from
different eras I I was a an autodidact
than every possible sense of the word
maybe you know for you maybe 40 cat
watching this or someone's watch this
you know maybe you think it's a joke for
someone to call themselves you know an
autodidact maybe sometimes it is
ridiculous when people call themselves a
cowboy you know okay but what about when
we're talking about people who actually
wear that hat or wear spurs on their
boots for for a reason you know at some
point the kind of endless cycle of I
mean undermining other people's you know
ambitions
that's real we're talking not
pretensions but ambition
you know to know when it's some at some
point it has to stop at some point we
have to start living in earnest and
living without you know really irony for
the sake of irony I mean the other
question I raised this comes up in all
kinds of contexts is the issue of not
making excuses for yourself and I mean
this is almost you're saying the same
thing but inside out that you're not
making excuses yourself and you're not
making excuses for others I think that's
what it what it leads to
you know no it was me so you know if you
get an a-plus in history you can get an
a-plus repeating complete mythology
about history you know I mean you can
you can just get an a-plus ok let's
let's pick our not too provocative we
were talking recently about Thomas
Jefferson you know so you can write a
hit you can get an a-plus in high school
University saying that Thomas Jefferson
was the greatest president United States
what about First Nations what about
American Indians what about the
indigenous people I mean I think exactly
the point is you know you not making
excuses of yourself you're not making
the society you live it if you were real
intellectual you're not going to be
satisfied with reading a textbook that
just says Thomas Jefferson is the
greatest president for reason is Quincy
or even writing your essay repeating
this kind of this kind of propaganda
getting a-plus
you're never be gonna have that that
dissatisfaction you're going to hold
yourself to a higher standard and then
when you find out that other side of the
story now you're going to be looking at
your history professor you can be
looking at your school you're gonna be
looking at the political system and the
country you live in and you're gonna be
you're gonna be holding it to a higher
standard also it's it's that you're not
making excuses for yourself and you're
maybe not accepting the socially
sanctioned or socially celebrated
excuses that that exists you know I
think this is one of them where do you
think that comes from how can you expect
a kid who goes through education the
same education system as parents that
don't really emphasize yeah independent
independent learning no look it's it's a
great question
but I don't have an answer